The first we should talk a little bit about Blendr and the interface.
If this is your first time using blender it can be a little intimidating to open this up and see all
the buttons and windows and everything.
But let's just take a look at the interface real quick and talk a bit about some of the panels and windows
will be using.
First of all over here on the left side is the Tools panel and this is usually open by default but if
you hit the T key on the keyboard that will close that and open it up so you can hide it away if it's
in the way.
The other panel that's used a lot is the properties panel and that can be accessed by pressing the N
key and that panel will pop up here.
Now you can also use this little Plus key right here to open up the properties panel as well.
This of course is your main 3-D view where we'll be building all of our objects setting up the scene
and animating the World here on the right hand side you've got the outliner which is basically a list
of all the objects in your scene for each of these you can turn off the visibility within the scene.
You can turn off the select ability or restrict it so you cannot selected and you can also turn off
the visibility within the final rendered image or animation here.
Now down below this we've got the properties window which I think can be a bit confusing when we call
this the properties panel and this the properties window but they are both properties.
It's got a lot of different sections to it.
We've got the rendering section went which we'll be using near the end of the modifiers panel here.
The materials window will be going through a lot of these as we move through the series.
But one thing I should mention here is that all of these windows can be changed.
They can be reconfigured and rearranged.
If you look at this button here it's got a list of all the possible windows you can have in your interface.
So this one here that we just took a look at is the Properties window the one above this is the outliner
the one to the left over here is the 3D view.
So each one of these can be changed to anything you want.
So I can change this to a 3D view.
I can change this to a 3-D view and I could change this to the outliner.
So it's completely configurable which can get a little confusing at times but it's also really convenient.
I mean it changes back to the 3D view.
Change this back to the outliner and this one back to the Properties window.
Now down here at the bottom is the timeline and ultimately we'll be animating our Meck character with
the timeline down here.
Now we should also talk about navigating within the 3D view and it can be a little different and a lot
of other programs.
One of the things to be aware of right up front is that by default you select things with the right
mouse button.
So if I click the right mouse button I can then select this cube or this camera or the light in most
programs you select things with the left mouse button you can change that if you like or you can go
to a file user preferences and under input you can change which mouse button you select things with.
So I can change this to the the left mouse button here and click save user settings and then now I can
select things with the left mouse button.
And if this is your first time using blender or you've only used it a little bit and you've found it
very unintuitive to use that right mouse button feel free to change this.
I think it helps people get into blender a lot easier.
I'm kind of old school I'm afraid so I'm going to switch back to the right here now the way you navigate
within the 3D view is with the middle mouse button.
So if I clicked the middle mouse button and drag the mouse I can tumble around if I hold the shift key
down and click and drag the middle mouse button I will pan the scene and if I press the control button
on the keyboard and middle mouse button click and drag I can zoom in and out.
Now you can also scroll the mouse wheel as well to zoom in and out one in the next video we'll talk
about creating and manipulating objects and actually begin modeling our scene.